# Readme for Ortholog Analysis Code

This code is designed to analyze ortholog data generated by the bedtools closest command. It takes the output directory of the bedtools closest command as input and performs various analyses to extract useful information.

## Prerequisites

Python 3.x

## Usage

`python checkSameLocus_ForSimulation.py <output_directory> <fbgnid_file>`

- output_directory: The directory containing all the output files of the bedtools closest command. Make sure there are no other files in this directory.
- fbgnid_file: The file containing gene IDs.

## Function Descriptions

### orthologsList(orthoFile, speciesName)
This function takes in an ortholog dictionary file and a species name and returns the dictionary compOrthoDict[speciesName][]. The ortholog dictionary file should contain information about orthologs for each species.

### dictionaryLocus(spex, locusName, scrmCoord)
This function updates the diction dictionary by adding a locus entry for a specific species. It takes in the species name (spex), locus name (locusName), and coordinates (scrmCoord) as input.

### main()
The main function of the script. It performs the following steps:

- Reads the input parameters.
- Iterates over the files in the specified output directory.
- Parses each file, extracts relevant information, and stores it in dictionaries (diction, sizeOfLocusDict, intronDict, locusList).
- Performs additional analysis on the collected data, such as counting occurrences of genes.
- Prints the results.

## Output

The code generates various output based on the analysis performed. The results are printed to the console.

## Additional Notes

- Make sure to have the necessary ortholog dictionary files in the same directory as the script.
-  The script relies on specific column indices and file naming conventions. Please ensure that the input files adhere to the required format.

(c) Hasiba Asma, December 2022
